+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Anonymous Web-Based Psychoacoustics
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++


Purpose
=======

The purpose of this research is to measure how humans perceive sounds and extract information from sounds. From these measurements, we hope to infer how components of the human auditory system (our ears and parts of the brain that help us interpret sounds) work. The long-term goals are to help those whose hearing is impaired, and to help improve how machines process sounds. Conducting experiments over the web allows us to reach a much larger and more diverse set of subjects than is possible in normal laboratory studies.

Specific procedures to be followed
==================================

It has become increasingly clear in the field of hearing science that individual listeners vary tremendously in their ability to process sound and extract information from sound. These individual differences come both from biological differences within our ears, and from cognitive differences that arise from our brains and our prior experiences. Consequently, to truly advance hearing health and understand auditory perception, it is desirable to study a large number of participants (hundreds to thousands) while making only a limited set of measurements from each (a few minutes minutes to a couple of hours of data collection per individual). It is difficult to recruit such large numbers of participants to come into the laboratory. We will therefore take advantage of the internet to (a) anonymously recruit, (b) collect data from, and (c) compensate subjects fully online.

For anonymous web-based participant recruitment and compensation, we will use popular online human task-force and research subject marketplaces. Examples of such marketplaces include:

(1) Amazon’s Mechanical Turk Website - https://www.mturk.com
(2) Prolific Website - https://www.prolific.co
(3) Testable Minds - https://minds.testable.org

We will refer to websites offering such services as “PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACES”. The common service offered by these PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACES is that they allow researchers to post web-based tasks (such as surveys, audio-based tasks, image/video-based tasks etc.) that participants can complete in exchange for payment. Such services are in wide use by businesses, for instance to evaluate online products, and by psychology research labs, for instance to gather data about how people perceive audio/visual stimuli. Anyone can sign up for an account either as a researcher (someone who wants to POST tasks and pay the website) or a participant (someone who wants to DO posted tasks in exchange for payment). A key feature offered by these PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACES is that they **automatically** and **anonymously** match researchers with participants. Participants can browse through the list of available tasks, and then either agree to participate or opt out of participating at any time. If they choose to participate they can click on a link to another website where they complete the task itself. We will refer to these websites where the task itself is hosted as the “TASK WEBSITE”. Upon successfully completing the task, the participant can post a confirmation code from the TASK WEBSITE to the PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACE, and then receive payment. This process of using a separate PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACE to recruit and pay the subjects from a distinct TASK WEBSITE where the research data is actually collected preserves their anonymity.


Nature of Task and Surveys
==========================We have created our own TASK WEBSITE [snaplabonline.com] within which our lab members (i.e., personnel on this protocol) will create experiments. We will then post links to these experiments on the PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACE website for people to choose to participate in if they like. Upon visiting our TASK WEBSITE, participants can complete the task using their own computer and browser. These experiments will involve answering questions such making judgments about sounds or images, or responding to short survey/demographics questions. A typical experiment might involve 10 - 100 sound/image stimuli, and 5 - 20 survey questions and may be organized in multiple parts for ease of flow.  Participants will answer each question by pressing a few keystrokes, typing simple words or short sentences, or clicking with the mouse. Each question should take only a few seconds to answer.  The entire experiment should take no longer than 2 hours, but more commonly only about 20 minutes. If the experiment is longer than 20 minutes, it will be setup into multiple parts such that they can take breaks and don’t have to complete it in one sitting.
Below are examples of questions that may feature in our experiments:
* The participant will hear three short sounds separated by silent gaps, and asked to judge which of the three sounds is different from the other two.* The participant will hear spoken words or sentences in the presence of background noise and asked to type out the words or sentences.* The participant will be shown images of arrows and asked to respond by pressing the arrow key that points the same direction as the image (i.e., left-right-up-OR-down). 
* The participant is asked to provide demographic information (e.g., age)  or other information their hearing (e.g., have they been ever been diagnosed with hearing loss).

Under no circumstances will the participants be asked to reveal any personally identifying information (PII) such as names, email addresses, DOB, etc.

A core set of demographic questions that we will ask is attached. All other questions will be on the type where participants are asked to make judgements about sounds/images or their hearing.

For some experiments that primarily involve a few survey questions and very few audio/image stimuli, we may use other TASK WEBSITES such as Qualtrics/SurveyMonkey instead of our own website. The procedure for posting links on PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACES and paying subjects will be the same regardless.

Payment
=======
Participants will be paid at a rate that is comparable to that of other tasks offered on the PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACE websites. Pay will be adjusted based on how enjoyable or difficult we judge the task to be.  Less enjoyable or harder tasks may require us to pay slightly more, in order to enroll a sufficient number of participants in the desired time window. In all cases, subjects will be paid no less than $6 per hour and no more than $16 per hour. The payment available for each experiment will be clearly stated up front before participants decide whether to take up the tasks. In cases where participants only complete some parts of an experiment, but not others, they will be paid for their time spent on the completed parts. The PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACE websites takes care of transferring the appropriate payment to the individual upon completion of task.


Subject ID
==========Each PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACE website assigns a unique alphanumeric subject ID for a given individual. We will request participants to provide this subject ID to our TASK WEBSITE. This subject ID allows us to limit the number of times that a particular subject can participate in related tasks, and to track the same subject across multiple experiments (i.e., multiple visits to our TASK WEBSITE). However, PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACE websites do not provide any information that would allow us to connect the subject ID to the identity of the original participant. We will therefore keep no information that can be used to associate participants with their data. The data will be stored electronically on our secure private servers. Even the anonymous subject ID provided by the PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACE will not be stored as is on our private server, but will we stored in encoded form that further obscures that information; this obscuring step is not necessary to preserve participant privacy, but rather is an additional precaution.


Risks
=====
We do not expect any adverse effects due to answering short questions about sound stimuli. In addition, our task materials are similar to other examples that individuals from PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACES are likely to be familiar with.  Because subjects will be listening to sounds delivered via their own computer, there is the possibility that sounds could be uncomfortably loud. There are no other known risks, discomforts, or stresses associated with this study. To avoid the possibility of exposure to uncomfortably loud sounds, subjects will be instructed to turn down their computer volume to 25% of the maximum volume prior to starting the experiment. They will then complete a brief calibration phase in which they will adjust the volume level until the stimuli that will be presented are at an audible and comfortable level, and all subsequent stimuli will be presented at this level. 

By design, subject anonymity is preserved given that we will not have access to any identifying information. In principle, there is the unlikely possibility that either the PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACE websites or our TASK WEBSITE is hacked and the information therein is compromised. However, because all research data is separated (held within the TASK WEBSITE servers) from the identifying information (held by the parties operating the PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACE websites), unless both servers are compromised simultaneously and individual records are manually cross matched, the data we collect cannot be associated with an individual’s identity. To make this cross-linking difficult, we will not store even the subject ID in clear-text form on the TASK WEBSITE servers; instead, we will store their subject IDs only after further obscured encoding.
Inclusions and Exclusion Criteria
=================================
The proposed research involves adult subjects with no known neurological disorders (by self report). There are no other qualifications for inclusion in the study beyond a willingness to participate and the ability to respond as required on the experimental tasks. Subjects will be recruited and selected without reference to their gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or any other criterion without scientific relevance. In some cases, we may restrict participation based on age (e.g., when we are specifically interested in studying the effects on age on hearing). In addition, in some cases, we might require that participants be native English Speakers, or that they have been born and raised in particular countries (e.g., US or Canada when the task involves listening to speech stimuli in North American accents). A criterion that a subject have been born and raised in a particular country (potentially relevant to studies using speech stimuli) would not be based on race or ethnic origin, but rather for the scientific reason that familiarity with the speaker’s accent influences speech understanding.


Alternate Subject-Recruitment Channel and Procedures
====================================================
In addition to taking advantage of anonymous PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACES, we may also recruit subjects from our internal subject database. Our lab maintains a database of research subjects who have participated in our previous or ongoing IRB-approved studies (other in-person protocols at Purdue) and includes individuals who have explicitly consented through those studies that we could store their contact information and contact them for future studies. We will e-mail some of those subjects to see if they are interested in participating in this new online study. If they express interest, we will send them information about registering with a PARTICIPANT MARKETPLACE and information about how to find our studies on those websites. From that point on, the procedures will be the same as with other participants, and fully anonymous (we will not know who actually signed up or participated, or even if they came from this recruitment channel).
Benefits to be Gained by the Individual and/or Society
======================================================There are no direct benefits to individual participants. We anticipate that the information gained from this research will help us understand better how our hearing and brains work.  Further, we may gain a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying certain hearing disorders.  This may lead to benefits to society at large, such as through improved diagnostics and treatment strategies, or improved audio technologies.

